# Room reservation (Test for beebryte)

### Disclaimer

This is a test project for a job application. It is not meant to be used in production, and it is not meant to be a complete solution. Moreover, it's my first time using FastAPI, so I'm still learning how to use it.

## Description

This is a (really) simple room reservation app. It allows users to reserve rooms for a certain period of time (only between "round" hours). The project allows users to log in through JWT tokens and to create, read or delete reservations. The project is split into two parts: the backend (this repository) and the frontend (https://github.com/JeremieFa/room_reservation_client).

⚠️ Some data are generated by the `init_data.py` script. It creates some rooms and users.
by default, the script creates 20 rooms (C01, C02, ..., C10, P01, ... P10) and 9 users (user_01@test.com, ..., user_09@test.com). The password for all the users is `test`.

## Installation

1. Clone the repository
2. Create a virtual environment and activate it
3. Install the requirements with `pip install -r requirements.txt`
4. Optional but recommended: use the `init_data.py` script to create some rooms and users whith the command `python init_data.py`, this script will also initialize the database (sqlite)
5. Run the server with `uvicorn main:app`

## Usage

- If you want to just use the app, run `uvicorn main:app`
- For development, run `uvicorn main:app --reload` to have the server reload automatically when you make changes

## Settings

- You can change the settings in the `settings.py` file or through environment variables
- The settings are:
  - `DB_URL`: the URL of the database (default: `sqlite:///../db.db`)
  - `SECRET_KEY`: the secret key used to encode the JWT tokens
  - `ALGORITHM`: the algorithm used to encode the JWT tokens
  - `ACCESS_TOKEN_EXPIRE_MINUTES`: the time before the access token expires
  - `ALLOWED_HOSTS`: the allowed hosts for the server (default: `["http://localhost:5173"]`)

### Tests

- To run the tests, run `pytest`

## Access to the swagger documentation

- http://localhost:8000/docs (when running the server, it could be a different port if you changed it)

## Client

- The react client can be found here : https://github.com/JeremieFa/room_reservation_client
